pages/index.md, before:

---
title: Winter 2025
---


The Seminar runs on *Tuesdays* at **STRAND BLDG S5.20**. This term, some talks will run from *15:00 to 16:00*, and others will be in two parts -- an introductory talk from *15:00 to 15:40* and a research talk from *15:45 to 16:30*.





<br />

3 February,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **Jonah Duncan** (UCL)

Title:&nbsp; Recent progress on the fully nonlinear Loewner-Nirenberg problem 



Abstract:&nbsp; In 1974, Loewner and Nirenberg established that any smooth bounded Euclidean domain admits a conformally flat metric which is complete in the interior and has constant negative scalar curvature. Generalisations to compact manifolds with boundary, asymptotic expansions of solutions and other related problems have since received significant attention from many authors (Aviles, McOwen, Mazzeo etc.) 

In this talk I will discuss recent work with Luc Nguyen on generalisations of the Loewner-Nirenberg problem, in which one replaces the scalar curvature with other curvature quantities involving the Schouten tensor. These problems involve solving fully nonlinear, non-uniformly elliptic PDEs with infinite boundary data. In particular, I will discuss our recent existence results which yield solutions on arbitrary compact manifolds with boundary, and I will also discuss some surprising non-uniqueness phenomena in the upper half space, demonstrating that the 'expected' Liouville theorems do not always hold.

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />

10 February,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **Nikon Kurnosov** (LIMS)

Title:&nbsp; Deformations of holomorphic Lagrangian subvarieties

Abstract:&nbsp;
Let  (M,I,Ω) be a compact holomorphically symplectic manifold and X its holomorphic Lagrangian submanifold, consider (M,I_t,Ω_t) its holomorphically symplectic deformation such that Ω_t is exact on X. Voisin has shown for projective M that X can be deformed to a holomorphic Lagrangian submanifold in (M,I_t). Using a new holomorphically symplectic version of local Torelli theorem, I will give ideas of a proof of Voisin's theorem which is valid for non-projective and even for some non-Kahler holomorphically symplectic manifolds. This is a joint work with Misha Verbitsky.


---------------------------------------------------------


24 February,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **Giulia Gugiatti** (Edinburgh)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />


3 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />


10 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />


17 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />


24 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />



31 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />

Commit message:

Revise talk details for Giulia Gugiatti
Updated title and abstract for the talk by Giulia Gugiatti.

pages/index.md, after:

---
title: Winter 2025
---


The Seminar runs on *Tuesdays* at **STRAND BLDG S5.20**. This term, some talks will run from *15:00 to 16:00*, and others will be in two parts -- an introductory talk from *15:00 to 15:40* and a research talk from *15:45 to 16:30*.





<br />

3 February,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **Jonah Duncan** (UCL)

Title:&nbsp; Recent progress on the fully nonlinear Loewner-Nirenberg problem 



Abstract:&nbsp; In 1974, Loewner and Nirenberg established that any smooth bounded Euclidean domain admits a conformally flat metric which is complete in the interior and has constant negative scalar curvature. Generalisations to compact manifolds with boundary, asymptotic expansions of solutions and other related problems have since received significant attention from many authors (Aviles, McOwen, Mazzeo etc.) 

In this talk I will discuss recent work with Luc Nguyen on generalisations of the Loewner-Nirenberg problem, in which one replaces the scalar curvature with other curvature quantities involving the Schouten tensor. These problems involve solving fully nonlinear, non-uniformly elliptic PDEs with infinite boundary data. In particular, I will discuss our recent existence results which yield solutions on arbitrary compact manifolds with boundary, and I will also discuss some surprising non-uniqueness phenomena in the upper half space, demonstrating that the 'expected' Liouville theorems do not always hold.

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />

10 February,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **Nikon Kurnosov** (LIMS)

Title:&nbsp; Deformations of holomorphic Lagrangian subvarieties

Abstract:&nbsp;
Let  (M,I,Ω) be a compact holomorphically symplectic manifold and X its holomorphic Lagrangian submanifold, consider (M,I_t,Ω_t) its holomorphically symplectic deformation such that Ω_t is exact on X. Voisin has shown for projective M that X can be deformed to a holomorphic Lagrangian submanifold in (M,I_t). Using a new holomorphically symplectic version of local Torelli theorem, I will give ideas of a proof of Voisin's theorem which is valid for non-projective and even for some non-Kahler holomorphically symplectic manifolds. This is a joint work with Misha Verbitsky.


---------------------------------------------------------


24 February,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **Giulia Gugiatti** (Edinburgh)

Title:&nbsp;Kuznetsov components in mirror symmetry.

Abstract:&nbsp; 
In this talk I will explore how the structural features of Kuznetsov components of Fano varieties are reflected in the geometry of their mirror Landau-Ginzburg models. I will focus on Fano varieties arising as branched covers along Calabi-Yau hypersurfaces and propose a mirror description of their Kuznetsov component. I will discuss the case of the quartic double solid in detail. The talk is based on work in progress with Ilaria Di Dedda, Danil Kozevnikov, and Nick Sheridan.

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />


3 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />


10 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />


17 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />


24 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />



31 March,  15:00-16:00, STRAND BLDG S5.20

Speaker:&nbsp; **TBA** (TBA)

Title:&nbsp;TBA

Abstract:&nbsp; TBA

---------------------------------------------------------
<br />
